#summary OSS Project Proposal

1. Program Overview

 1) Development goals (background, aims etc.)

 Building highly dependability critical social infrastructures becomes more challenging as most intelligence and connectivity are introduced in these infrastructures. For example, smart power grid uses small- or large-scale computer devices to monitor and control the wide-area power grid in realtime. 

 This project is to build an open source software that can validate and evaluate computer system and software dependability. A fault injection tool is being developed that can emulate both hardware faults and software faults (i.e., bugs). By injecting a synthetic fault into a target system and measuring the consequent error and failure information, this can for example validiate the used fault tolerance technique in the target system. Repeating this experiment using different types of fault enables quantitative evaluation of system dependability and can also characterize the fault and error propagation behavior of target system that are useful to design cost-efficient fault-tolerance techniques.

 Hardware fault represents a transient fault in processor, memory, and interconnect. This is emulated by changing a software visible state of target system (e.g., processor register or memory word). This modles a fault in the hardware (e.g., transistor-level) propagated to a flipflop (e.g., register) in next clock cycle. Once the fault is propagated to a flipflip, this propagated error state propagates to other system states as the program performs computations.

 Software fault represents a common software bug. We use previous software defact classifications and emulate these common defacts in the source code of target program. The source code of target program is mutated with a software fault.


 2) System configuration

 The CEDP framework consists of two types of computer nodes: control node and injector node. 
 
 3) Menus


 4) Language used for development
 
 Control Node: Java
 Injector Node: C

 5) Systems used

 
 

 6) Plan for each development stage

 


 7) Number of personnel input and work assignment
 
 1
2. Long-term prospects of the program developed (No specific form is required.)

 